Digital Stewardship


Author: Jay Sella
Branch: Operations
Hidden: No
Tags: Leads/Chiefs Must-read


As a leader in Generate, you play a vital role in maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of our digital presence, tools, and financial stability. All Generate-related accounts, from Amazon to TikTok to GitHub, are managed by Operations.


Existing Accounts


Generate holds a number of accounts that we’ve accumulated over the years. These should be used whenever possible.


Creating New Accounts


Be Timely


If you know you will need an account, request it as soon as possible. Don’t wait until you’re ready to begin work with it; this may block your team and slow down progress.


Avoid Duplication


Before creating any new account, ask yourself:




Is there an existing account or service that can fulfill this need?


Can we expand the use of a current service instead of creating a new one?






 *If creating a new account is absolutely necessary, be sure to follow the principles described below.*






Digital Stewardship Principles


Email Accounts




Our official email address, generate@northeastern.edu, must be attached as the primary email to all Generate-related accounts.


Do not create new emails such as project- or team-specific Gmail accounts. If access to a service is needed, request credentials from your Director or reach out to the Operations Chief Information Architect (CIA). Be prepared with your justification.




Documentation and Security




Provide Operations CIA with all necessary info to create account by sending a message in 
#ops-help
. They will create the account, save credentials in Proton Pass, and share a Proton Pass link with you, if necessary.


Generate random, strong passwords from within Proton Pass, using at least 20 characters when able.


Do not share account credentials
 unless necessary for another member to perform their role.




Phone Numbers and MFA




Configure token-based 2FA via Proton Pass whenever possible.


Save any security questions with answers and recovery/backup codes in Proton Pass.


Do not use personal phone numbers for 2FA or other account-related details.


If a number is necessary to have on file, use Frank’s. DM your lead if you don’t have his number.








Subscriptions




If a new service will require a paid subscription, or if you need to sign up for a new or modified paid subscription on an existing account:


Secure approval from your branch Director.


Submit a Procurement Request for the service.


Inform the Operations CFO directly on Slack of the frequency and cost.






Northeastern University is a 
tax-exempt
 institution. Generate can not pay for, and members may not be reimbursed for, sales tax on purchases. Most official accounts already have our tax-exempt status on file with the vendor.




Questions


If you have any questions, please reach out to your Lead, branch Director, or in 
#ops-help
 on Slack.


December 11, 2024 to update