Flexible Spending Pool (FSP)


Author: Mika , Jay Sella
Branch: Operations
Hidden: No
Tags: FAQ, Leads/Chiefs Must-read


Overview


This Spring, we are introducing the Flexible Spending Pool (FSP) which will be applied to all expenses, excluding hardware project materials and standard team morale expenses. 


By implementing zero-based budgeting, we aim to:




Optimize Resource Allocation


Enhance transparency and predictability in budgeting decisions


Ensure spending aligns with Generate’s missions and values




Timeline/Process






Identify Team Goals
: Teams should identify their goals at the start of the semester and routinely track and evaluate their effectiveness.


Anticipate Expenses
: Expenses must be proposed 
AT LEAST
 10 days in advance. Expense proposals can be submitted through this form: 
**Expense Proposal Form
.** This form can also be found in the sidebar of the FinOps Dashboard under “Quicklinks”.


Proposal Review
: Proposals will then be evaluated against a predefined set of evaluation criteria within one week, during weekly Procurement meetings: Tuesday and Thursday evenings.


Final Decision and Tracking
: A final approval, approval with modification, or rejection will be communicated via Slack.




*
 
Please note that we are unable to process purchases of gift cards


Evaluation Criteria


All expense proposals will be evaluated on the following criteria, taking into consideration its alignment with 
Generate’s goals, impact, feasibility, and fund availability
. 






Alignment
:


How closely does this expense align with:




Generate’s values: innovative, driven, empathetic, spirited, growth-oriented


Sherman Center’s values: intentional, developmental, inclusive


Impact
:




What is the projected impact of this expense?




Estimated Return on Investment (ROI)


Targeted Audience and beneficiaries


Number of people positively impacted


Contribution to Generate’s goals, reach, and reputation


Efficiency of the proposed spending


Feasibility
:


Was the proposal submitted on time (two weeks in advance)?


Is the timeline practical and achievable?


Fund Availability
:


Current funding pool status


Opportunity Cost: Does this expense redirect funds from high-priority needs?








Questions?


For clarification or support, reach out in the 
#ops-help
 Slack channel. We’re here to help!